docs/data-sources/index.md, before:

---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "algolia_index Data Source - terraform-provider-algolia"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Data source for an index.
---

# algolia_index (Data Source)

Data source for an index.

## Example Usage

```terraform
data "algolia_index" "example" {
  name = "example"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- **name** (String) Name of the index.

### Optional

- **id** (String) The ID of this resource.

### Read-Only

- **attributes_config** (List of Object) The configuration for attributes. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--attributes_config))
- **enable_personalization** (Boolean) Weather to enable the Personalization feature.
- **enable_rules** (Boolean) Whether Rules should be globally enabled.
- **faceting_config** (List of Object) The configuration for faceting. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--faceting_config))
- **highlight_and_snippet_config** (List of Object) The configuration for highlight / snippet in index setting. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--highlight_and_snippet_config))
- **languages_config** (List of Object) The configuration for languages in index setting. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--languages_config))
- **pagination_config** (Block List) The configuration for pagination in index setting. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--pagination_config))
- **performance_config** (List of Object) The configuration for performance in index setting. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--performance_config))
- **query_strategy_config** (List of Object) The configuration for query strategy in index setting. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--query_strategy_config))
- **ranking_config** (List of Object) The configuration for ranking. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--ranking_config))
- **typos_config** (List of Object) The configuration for typos in index setting. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--typos_config))

<a id="nestedatt--attributes_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `attributes_config`

Read-Only:

- **attributes_for_faceting** (Set of String)
- **attributes_to_retrieve** (Set of String)
- **searchable_attributes** (List of String)
- **unretrievable_attributes** (Set of String)


<a id="nestedatt--faceting_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `faceting_config`

Read-Only:

- **max_values_per_facet** (Number)
- **sort_facet_values_by** (String)


<a id="nestedatt--highlight_and_snippet_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `highlight_and_snippet_config`

Read-Only:

- **attributes_to_highlight** (Set of String)
- **attributes_to_snippet** (Set of String)
- **highlight_post_tag** (String)
- **highlight_pre_tag** (String)
- **restrict_highlight_and_snippet_arrays** (Boolean)
- **snippet_ellipsis_text** (String)


<a id="nestedatt--languages_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `languages_config`

Read-Only:

- **attributes_to_transliterate** (Set of String)
- **camel_case_attributes** (Set of String)
- **custom_normalization** (Map of String)
- **decompound_query** (Boolean)
- **decompounded_attributes** (List of Object) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedobjatt--languages_config--decompounded_attributes))
- **ignore_plurals** (Boolean)
- **ignore_plurals_for** (Set of String)
- **index_languages** (Set of String)
- **keep_diacritics_on_characters** (String)
- **query_languages** (Set of String)
- **remove_stop_words** (Boolean)
- **remove_stop_words_for** (Set of String)

<a id="nestedobjatt--languages_config--decompounded_attributes"></a>
### Nested Schema for `languages_config.decompounded_attributes`

Read-Only:

- **attributes** (Set of String)
- **language** (String)



<a id="nestedblock--pagination_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `pagination_config`

Read-Only:

- **hits_per_page** (Number) The number of hits per page.
- **pagination_limited_to** (Number) The maximum number of hits accessible via pagination


<a id="nestedatt--performance_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `performance_config`

Read-Only:

- **allow_compression_of_integer_array** (Boolean)
- **numeric_attributes_for_filtering** (Set of String)


<a id="nestedatt--query_strategy_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `query_strategy_config`

Read-Only:

- **advanced_syntax** (Boolean)
- **advanced_syntax_features** (Set of String)
- **alternatives_as_exact** (Set of String)
- **disable_exact_on_attributes** (Set of String)
- **disable_prefix_on_attributes** (Set of String)
- **exact_on_single_word_query** (String)
- **optional_words** (Set of String)
- **query_type** (String)
- **remove_words_if_no_results** (String)


<a id="nestedatt--ranking_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `ranking_config`

Read-Only:

- **custom_ranking** (List of String)
- **ranking** (List of String)
- **replicas** (Set of String)


<a id="nestedatt--typos_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `typos_config`

Read-Only:

- **allow_typos_on_numeric_tokens** (Boolean)
- **disable_typo_tolerance_on_attributes** (List of String)
- **disable_typo_tolerance_on_words** (List of String)
- **min_word_size_for_1_typo** (Number)
- **min_word_size_for_2_typos** (Number)
- **separators_to_index** (String)
- **typo_tolerance** (String)

Commit message:

Add advanced config block to algolia_index

docs/data-sources/index.md, after:

---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "algolia_index Data Source - terraform-provider-algolia"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Data source for an index.
---

# algolia_index (Data Source)

Data source for an index.

## Example Usage

```terraform
data "algolia_index" "example" {
  name = "example"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- **name** (String) Name of the index.

### Optional

- **id** (String) The ID of this resource.

### Read-Only

- **advanced_config** (List of Object) The configuration for advanced features in index setting. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--advanced_config))
- **attributes_config** (List of Object) The configuration for attributes. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--attributes_config))
- **enable_personalization** (Boolean) Weather to enable the Personalization feature.
- **enable_rules** (Boolean) Whether Rules should be globally enabled.
- **faceting_config** (List of Object) The configuration for faceting. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--faceting_config))
- **highlight_and_snippet_config** (List of Object) The configuration for highlight / snippet in index setting. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--highlight_and_snippet_config))
- **languages_config** (List of Object) The configuration for languages in index setting. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--languages_config))
- **pagination_config** (Block List) The configuration for pagination in index setting. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--pagination_config))
- **performance_config** (List of Object) The configuration for performance in index setting. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--performance_config))
- **query_strategy_config** (List of Object) The configuration for query strategy in index setting. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--query_strategy_config))
- **ranking_config** (List of Object) The configuration for ranking. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--ranking_config))
- **typos_config** (List of Object) The configuration for typos in index setting. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--typos_config))

<a id="nestedatt--advanced_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `advanced_config`

Read-Only:

- **attribute_criteria_computed_by_min_proximity** (Boolean)
- **attribute_for_distinct** (String)
- **distinct** (Number)
- **max_facet_hits** (Number)
- **min_proximity** (Number)
- **replace_synonyms_in_highlight** (Boolean)
- **response_fields** (Set of String)


<a id="nestedatt--attributes_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `attributes_config`

Read-Only:

- **attributes_for_faceting** (Set of String)
- **attributes_to_retrieve** (Set of String)
- **searchable_attributes** (List of String)
- **unretrievable_attributes** (Set of String)


<a id="nestedatt--faceting_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `faceting_config`

Read-Only:

- **max_values_per_facet** (Number)
- **sort_facet_values_by** (String)


<a id="nestedatt--highlight_and_snippet_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `highlight_and_snippet_config`

Read-Only:

- **attributes_to_highlight** (Set of String)
- **attributes_to_snippet** (Set of String)
- **highlight_post_tag** (String)
- **highlight_pre_tag** (String)
- **restrict_highlight_and_snippet_arrays** (Boolean)
- **snippet_ellipsis_text** (String)


<a id="nestedatt--languages_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `languages_config`

Read-Only:

- **attributes_to_transliterate** (Set of String)
- **camel_case_attributes** (Set of String)
- **custom_normalization** (Map of String)
- **decompound_query** (Boolean)
- **decompounded_attributes** (List of Object) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedobjatt--languages_config--decompounded_attributes))
- **ignore_plurals** (Boolean)
- **ignore_plurals_for** (Set of String)
- **index_languages** (Set of String)
- **keep_diacritics_on_characters** (String)
- **query_languages** (Set of String)
- **remove_stop_words** (Boolean)
- **remove_stop_words_for** (Set of String)

<a id="nestedobjatt--languages_config--decompounded_attributes"></a>
### Nested Schema for `languages_config.decompounded_attributes`

Read-Only:

- **attributes** (Set of String)
- **language** (String)



<a id="nestedblock--pagination_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `pagination_config`

Read-Only:

- **hits_per_page** (Number) The number of hits per page.
- **pagination_limited_to** (Number) The maximum number of hits accessible via pagination


<a id="nestedatt--performance_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `performance_config`

Read-Only:

- **allow_compression_of_integer_array** (Boolean)
- **numeric_attributes_for_filtering** (Set of String)


<a id="nestedatt--query_strategy_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `query_strategy_config`

Read-Only:

- **advanced_syntax** (Boolean)
- **advanced_syntax_features** (Set of String)
- **alternatives_as_exact** (Set of String)
- **disable_exact_on_attributes** (Set of String)
- **disable_prefix_on_attributes** (Set of String)
- **exact_on_single_word_query** (String)
- **optional_words** (Set of String)
- **query_type** (String)
- **remove_words_if_no_results** (String)


<a id="nestedatt--ranking_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `ranking_config`

Read-Only:

- **custom_ranking** (List of String)
- **ranking** (List of String)
- **replicas** (Set of String)


<a id="nestedatt--typos_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `typos_config`

Read-Only:

- **allow_typos_on_numeric_tokens** (Boolean)
- **disable_typo_tolerance_on_attributes** (List of String)
- **disable_typo_tolerance_on_words** (List of String)
- **min_word_size_for_1_typo** (Number)
- **min_word_size_for_2_typos** (Number)
- **separators_to_index** (String)
- **typo_tolerance** (String)
