docs/resources/index.md, before:

---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "algolia_index Resource - terraform-provider-algolia"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  A configuration for an index.
---

# algolia_index (Resource)

A configuration for an index.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "algolia_index" "example" {
  name = "example"
  attributes_config {
    searchable_attributes = [
      "title",
      "category,tag",
      "unordered(description)",
    ]
    attributes_for_faceting = [
      "category"
    ]
    unretrievable_attributes = [
      "author_email"
    ]
    attributes_to_retrieve = [
      "title",
      "category",
      "tag",
      "description",
      "body"
    ]
  }

  ranking_config {
    ranking = [
      "words",
      "proximity"
    ]
  }

  faceting_config {
    max_values_per_facet = 50
    sort_facet_values_by = "alpha"
  }

  languages_config {
    remove_stop_words_for = ["en"]
  }
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- **name** (String) Name of the index.

### Optional

- **advanced_config** (Block List, Max: 1) The configuration for advanced features in index setting. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--advanced_config))
- **attributes_config** (Block List, Max: 1) The configuration for attributes. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--attributes_config))
- **enable_personalization** (Boolean) Whether to enable the Personalization feature.
- **enable_rules** (Boolean) Whether Rules should be globally enabled.
- **faceting_config** (Block List, Max: 1) The configuration for faceting. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--faceting_config))
- **highlight_and_snippet_config** (Block List, Max: 1) The configuration for highlight / snippet in index setting. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--highlight_and_snippet_config))
- **id** (String) The ID of this resource.
- **languages_config** (Block List, Max: 1) The configuration for languages in index setting. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--languages_config))
- **pagination_config** (Block List, Max: 1) The configuration for pagination in index setting. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--pagination_config))
- **performance_config** (Block List, Max: 1) The configuration for performance in index setting. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--performance_config))
- **query_strategy_config** (Block List, Max: 1) The configuration for query strategy in index setting. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--query_strategy_config))
- **ranking_config** (Block List, Max: 1) The configuration for ranking. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--ranking_config))
- **timeouts** (Block, Optional) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--timeouts))
- **typos_config** (Block List, Max: 1) The configuration for typos in index setting. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--typos_config))

<a id="nestedblock--advanced_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `advanced_config`

Optional:

- **attribute_criteria_computed_by_min_proximity** (Boolean) When attribute is ranked above proximity in your ranking formula, proximity is used to select which searchable attribute is matched in the **attribute ranking stage**.
- **attribute_for_distinct** (String) Name of the de-duplication attribute to be used with the `distinct` feature.
- **distinct** (Number) Whether to enable de-duplication or grouping of results.
- When set to `0`, you disable de-duplication and grouping.
- When set to `1`, you enable **de-duplication**, in which only the most relevant result is returned for all records that have the same value in the distinct attribute. This is similar to the SQL `distinct` keyword.
if `distinct` is set to 1 (de-duplication):
- When set to `N (where N > 1)`, you enable grouping, in which most N hits will be returned with the same value for the distinct attribute.
then the N most relevant episodes for every show are kept, with similar consequences.
- **max_facet_hits** (Number) Maximum number of facet hits to return during a search for facet values.
- **min_proximity** (Number) Precision of the `proximity` ranking criterion.
- **replace_synonyms_in_highlight** (Boolean) Whether to highlight and snippet the original word that matches the synonym or the synonym itself.
- **response_fields** (Set of String) The fields the response will contain. Applies to search and browse queries.
This parameter is mainly intended to **limit the response size.** For example, in complex queries, echoing of request parameters in the response’s params field can be undesirable.


<a id="nestedblock--attributes_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `attributes_config`

Optional:

- **attributes_for_faceting** (Set of String) The complete list of attributes that will be used for faceting.
- **attributes_to_retrieve** (Set of String) List of attributes to be retrieved at query time.
- **searchable_attributes** (List of String) The complete list of attributes used for searching.
- **unretrievable_attributes** (Set of String) List of attributes that cannot be retrieved at query time.


<a id="nestedblock--faceting_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `faceting_config`

Optional:

- **max_values_per_facet** (Number) Maximum number of facet values to return for each facet during a regular search.
- **sort_facet_values_by** (String) Parameter to controls how the facet values are sorted within each faceted attribute.


<a id="nestedblock--highlight_and_snippet_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `highlight_and_snippet_config`

Optional:

- **attributes_to_highlight** (Set of String) List of attributes to highlight.
- **attributes_to_snippet** (Set of String) List of attributes to snippet, with an optional maximum number of words to snippet.
- **highlight_post_tag** (String) The HTML string to insert after the highlighted parts in all highlight and snippet results.
- **highlight_pre_tag** (String) The HTML string to insert before the highlighted parts in all highlight and snippet results.
- **restrict_highlight_and_snippet_arrays** (Boolean) Restrict highlighting and snippeting to items that matched the query.
- **snippet_ellipsis_text** (String) String used as an ellipsis indicator when a snippet is truncated.


<a id="nestedblock--languages_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `languages_config`

Optional:

- **attributes_to_transliterate** (Set of String) List of attributes to apply transliteration
- **camel_case_attributes** (Set of String) List of attributes on which to do a decomposition of camel case words.
- **custom_normalization** (Map of String) Custom normalization which overrides the engine’s default normalization
- **decompound_query** (Boolean) Whether to split compound words into their composing atoms in the query.
- **decompounded_attributes** (Block List) List of attributes to apply word segmentation, also known as decompounding. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--languages_config--decompounded_attributes))
- **ignore_plurals** (Boolean) Whether to treat singular, plurals, and other forms of declensions as matching terms.
- **ignore_plurals_for** (Set of String) Whether to treat singular, plurals, and other forms of declensions as matching terms in target languages.
List of supported languages are listed on http://nhttps//www.algolia.com/doc/api-reference/api-parameters/ignorePlurals/#usage-notes
- **index_languages** (Set of String) List of languages at the index level for language-specific processing such as tokenization and normalization.
- **keep_diacritics_on_characters** (String) List of characters that the engine shouldn’t automatically normalize.
- **query_languages** (Set of String) List of languages to be used by language-specific settings and functionalities such as ignorePlurals, removeStopWords, and CJK word-detection.
- **remove_stop_words** (Boolean) Whether to removes stop (common) words from the query before executing it.
- **remove_stop_words_for** (Set of String) List of languages to removes stop (common) words from the query before executing it.

<a id="nestedblock--languages_config--decompounded_attributes"></a>
### Nested Schema for `languages_config.decompounded_attributes`

Required:

- **attributes** (Set of String)
- **language** (String)



<a id="nestedblock--pagination_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `pagination_config`

Optional:

- **hits_per_page** (Number) The number of hits per page.
- **pagination_limited_to** (Number) The maximum number of hits accessible via pagination


<a id="nestedblock--performance_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `performance_config`

Optional:

- **allow_compression_of_integer_array** (Boolean) Whether to enable compression of large integer arrays.
- **numeric_attributes_for_filtering** (Set of String) List of numeric attributes that can be used as numerical filters.


<a id="nestedblock--query_strategy_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `query_strategy_config`

Optional:

- **advanced_syntax** (Boolean) Whether to enable the advanced query syntax.
- **advanced_syntax_features** (Set of String) Advanced syntax features to be activated when ‘advancedSyntax’ is enabled
- **alternatives_as_exact** (Set of String) List of alternatives that should be considered an exact match by the exact ranking criterion.
- **disable_exact_on_attributes** (Set of String) List of attributes on which you want to disable the exact ranking criterion.
- **disable_prefix_on_attributes** (Set of String) List of attributes on which you want to disable prefix matching.
- **exact_on_single_word_query** (String) Controls how the exact ranking criterion is computed when the query contains only one word.
- **optional_words** (Set of String) A list of words that should be considered as optional when found in the query.
- **query_type** (String) Query type to control if and how query words are interpreted as prefixes.
- **remove_words_if_no_results** (String) Strategy to remove words from the query when it doesn’t match any hits.


<a id="nestedblock--ranking_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `ranking_config`

Optional:

- **custom_ranking** (List of String) List of attributes for custom ranking criterion.
- **ranking** (List of String) List of ranking criteria.
- **replicas** (Set of String) List of replica names.


<a id="nestedblock--timeouts"></a>
### Nested Schema for `timeouts`

Optional:

- **default** (String)


<a id="nestedblock--typos_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `typos_config`

Optional:

- **allow_typos_on_numeric_tokens** (Boolean) Whether to allow typos on numbers (“numeric tokens”) in the query str
- **disable_typo_tolerance_on_attributes** (List of String) List of attributes on which you want to disable typo tolerance.
- **disable_typo_tolerance_on_words** (List of String) List of words on which typo tolerance will be disabled.
- **min_word_size_for_1_typo** (Number) Minimum number of characters a word in the query string must contain to accept matches with 1 typo.
- **min_word_size_for_2_typos** (Number) Minimum number of characters a word in the query string must contain to accept matches with 2 typos.
- **separators_to_index** (String) Separators (punctuation characters) to index. By default, separators are not indexed.
- **typo_tolerance** (String) Whether typo tolerance is enabled and how it is applied

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
terraform import algolia_index.default {{index_name}}
```

Commit message:

Add  attribute to index resource to prevent destroying index by mistake

docs/resources/index.md, after:

---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "algolia_index Resource - terraform-provider-algolia"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  A configuration for an index.
---

# algolia_index (Resource)

A configuration for an index.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "algolia_index" "example" {
  name = "example"
  attributes_config {
    searchable_attributes = [
      "title",
      "category,tag",
      "unordered(description)",
    ]
    attributes_for_faceting = [
      "category"
    ]
    unretrievable_attributes = [
      "author_email"
    ]
    attributes_to_retrieve = [
      "title",
      "category",
      "tag",
      "description",
      "body"
    ]
  }

  ranking_config {
    ranking = [
      "words",
      "proximity"
    ]
  }

  faceting_config {
    max_values_per_facet = 50
    sort_facet_values_by = "alpha"
  }

  languages_config {
    remove_stop_words_for = ["en"]
  }
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- **name** (String) Name of the index.

### Optional

- **advanced_config** (Block List, Max: 1) The configuration for advanced features in index setting. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--advanced_config))
- **attributes_config** (Block List, Max: 1) The configuration for attributes. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--attributes_config))
- **deletion_protection** (Boolean) Whether to allow Terraform to destroy the index.  Unless this field is set to false in Terraform state, a terraform destroy or terraform apply command that deletes the instance will fail.
- **enable_personalization** (Boolean) Whether to enable the Personalization feature.
- **enable_rules** (Boolean) Whether Rules should be globally enabled.
- **faceting_config** (Block List, Max: 1) The configuration for faceting. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--faceting_config))
- **highlight_and_snippet_config** (Block List, Max: 1) The configuration for highlight / snippet in index setting. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--highlight_and_snippet_config))
- **id** (String) The ID of this resource.
- **languages_config** (Block List, Max: 1) The configuration for languages in index setting. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--languages_config))
- **pagination_config** (Block List, Max: 1) The configuration for pagination in index setting. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--pagination_config))
- **performance_config** (Block List, Max: 1) The configuration for performance in index setting. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--performance_config))
- **query_strategy_config** (Block List, Max: 1) The configuration for query strategy in index setting. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--query_strategy_config))
- **ranking_config** (Block List, Max: 1) The configuration for ranking. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--ranking_config))
- **timeouts** (Block, Optional) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--timeouts))
- **typos_config** (Block List, Max: 1) The configuration for typos in index setting. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--typos_config))

<a id="nestedblock--advanced_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `advanced_config`

Optional:

- **attribute_criteria_computed_by_min_proximity** (Boolean) When attribute is ranked above proximity in your ranking formula, proximity is used to select which searchable attribute is matched in the **attribute ranking stage**.
- **attribute_for_distinct** (String) Name of the de-duplication attribute to be used with the `distinct` feature.
- **distinct** (Number) Whether to enable de-duplication or grouping of results.
- When set to `0`, you disable de-duplication and grouping.
- When set to `1`, you enable **de-duplication**, in which only the most relevant result is returned for all records that have the same value in the distinct attribute. This is similar to the SQL `distinct` keyword.
if `distinct` is set to 1 (de-duplication):
- When set to `N (where N > 1)`, you enable grouping, in which most N hits will be returned with the same value for the distinct attribute.
then the N most relevant episodes for every show are kept, with similar consequences.
- **max_facet_hits** (Number) Maximum number of facet hits to return during a search for facet values.
- **min_proximity** (Number) Precision of the `proximity` ranking criterion.
- **replace_synonyms_in_highlight** (Boolean) Whether to highlight and snippet the original word that matches the synonym or the synonym itself.
- **response_fields** (Set of String) The fields the response will contain. Applies to search and browse queries.
This parameter is mainly intended to **limit the response size.** For example, in complex queries, echoing of request parameters in the response’s params field can be undesirable.


<a id="nestedblock--attributes_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `attributes_config`

Optional:

- **attributes_for_faceting** (Set of String) The complete list of attributes that will be used for faceting.
- **attributes_to_retrieve** (Set of String) List of attributes to be retrieved at query time.
- **searchable_attributes** (List of String) The complete list of attributes used for searching.
- **unretrievable_attributes** (Set of String) List of attributes that cannot be retrieved at query time.


<a id="nestedblock--faceting_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `faceting_config`

Optional:

- **max_values_per_facet** (Number) Maximum number of facet values to return for each facet during a regular search.
- **sort_facet_values_by** (String) Parameter to controls how the facet values are sorted within each faceted attribute.


<a id="nestedblock--highlight_and_snippet_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `highlight_and_snippet_config`

Optional:

- **attributes_to_highlight** (Set of String) List of attributes to highlight.
- **attributes_to_snippet** (Set of String) List of attributes to snippet, with an optional maximum number of words to snippet.
- **highlight_post_tag** (String) The HTML string to insert after the highlighted parts in all highlight and snippet results.
- **highlight_pre_tag** (String) The HTML string to insert before the highlighted parts in all highlight and snippet results.
- **restrict_highlight_and_snippet_arrays** (Boolean) Restrict highlighting and snippeting to items that matched the query.
- **snippet_ellipsis_text** (String) String used as an ellipsis indicator when a snippet is truncated.


<a id="nestedblock--languages_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `languages_config`

Optional:

- **attributes_to_transliterate** (Set of String) List of attributes to apply transliteration
- **camel_case_attributes** (Set of String) List of attributes on which to do a decomposition of camel case words.
- **custom_normalization** (Map of String) Custom normalization which overrides the engine’s default normalization
- **decompound_query** (Boolean) Whether to split compound words into their composing atoms in the query.
- **decompounded_attributes** (Block List) List of attributes to apply word segmentation, also known as decompounding. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--languages_config--decompounded_attributes))
- **ignore_plurals** (Boolean) Whether to treat singular, plurals, and other forms of declensions as matching terms.
- **ignore_plurals_for** (Set of String) Whether to treat singular, plurals, and other forms of declensions as matching terms in target languages.
List of supported languages are listed on http://nhttps//www.algolia.com/doc/api-reference/api-parameters/ignorePlurals/#usage-notes
- **index_languages** (Set of String) List of languages at the index level for language-specific processing such as tokenization and normalization.
- **keep_diacritics_on_characters** (String) List of characters that the engine shouldn’t automatically normalize.
- **query_languages** (Set of String) List of languages to be used by language-specific settings and functionalities such as ignorePlurals, removeStopWords, and CJK word-detection.
- **remove_stop_words** (Boolean) Whether to removes stop (common) words from the query before executing it.
- **remove_stop_words_for** (Set of String) List of languages to removes stop (common) words from the query before executing it.

<a id="nestedblock--languages_config--decompounded_attributes"></a>
### Nested Schema for `languages_config.decompounded_attributes`

Required:

- **attributes** (Set of String)
- **language** (String)



<a id="nestedblock--pagination_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `pagination_config`

Optional:

- **hits_per_page** (Number) The number of hits per page.
- **pagination_limited_to** (Number) The maximum number of hits accessible via pagination


<a id="nestedblock--performance_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `performance_config`

Optional:

- **allow_compression_of_integer_array** (Boolean) Whether to enable compression of large integer arrays.
- **numeric_attributes_for_filtering** (Set of String) List of numeric attributes that can be used as numerical filters.


<a id="nestedblock--query_strategy_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `query_strategy_config`

Optional:

- **advanced_syntax** (Boolean) Whether to enable the advanced query syntax.
- **advanced_syntax_features** (Set of String) Advanced syntax features to be activated when ‘advancedSyntax’ is enabled
- **alternatives_as_exact** (Set of String) List of alternatives that should be considered an exact match by the exact ranking criterion.
- **disable_exact_on_attributes** (Set of String) List of attributes on which you want to disable the exact ranking criterion.
- **disable_prefix_on_attributes** (Set of String) List of attributes on which you want to disable prefix matching.
- **exact_on_single_word_query** (String) Controls how the exact ranking criterion is computed when the query contains only one word.
- **optional_words** (Set of String) A list of words that should be considered as optional when found in the query.
- **query_type** (String) Query type to control if and how query words are interpreted as prefixes.
- **remove_words_if_no_results** (String) Strategy to remove words from the query when it doesn’t match any hits.


<a id="nestedblock--ranking_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `ranking_config`

Optional:

- **custom_ranking** (List of String) List of attributes for custom ranking criterion.
- **ranking** (List of String) List of ranking criteria.
- **replicas** (Set of String) List of replica names.


<a id="nestedblock--timeouts"></a>
### Nested Schema for `timeouts`

Optional:

- **default** (String)


<a id="nestedblock--typos_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `typos_config`

Optional:

- **allow_typos_on_numeric_tokens** (Boolean) Whether to allow typos on numbers (“numeric tokens”) in the query str
- **disable_typo_tolerance_on_attributes** (List of String) List of attributes on which you want to disable typo tolerance.
- **disable_typo_tolerance_on_words** (List of String) List of words on which typo tolerance will be disabled.
- **min_word_size_for_1_typo** (Number) Minimum number of characters a word in the query string must contain to accept matches with 1 typo.
- **min_word_size_for_2_typos** (Number) Minimum number of characters a word in the query string must contain to accept matches with 2 typos.
- **separators_to_index** (String) Separators (punctuation characters) to index. By default, separators are not indexed.
- **typo_tolerance** (String) Whether typo tolerance is enabled and how it is applied

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
terraform import algolia_index.default {{index_name}}
```
