---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "algolia_synonyms Resource - terraform-provider-algolia"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  A configuration for synonyms. To get more information about synonyms, see the Official Documentation https://www.algolia.com/doc/guides/managing-results/optimize-search-results/adding-synonyms/.
  ※ It replaces any existing synonyms set for the index. So you can't have multiple algolia_synonyms resources for the same index.
---

# algolia_synonyms (Resource)

A configuration for synonyms. To get more information about synonyms, see the [Official Documentation](https://www.algolia.com/doc/guides/managing-results/optimize-search-results/adding-synonyms/).

※ **It replaces any existing synonyms set for the index.** So you can't have multiple `algolia_synonyms` resources for the same index.



<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `index_name` (String) Name of the index to apply synonyms.
- `synonyms` (Block Set, Min: 1) A list of conditions that should apply to activate a Rule. You can use up to 25 conditions per Rule. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--synonyms))

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.

<a id="nestedblock--synonyms"></a>
### Nested Schema for `synonyms`

Required:

- `object_id` (String) Unique identifier for the synonym.It can contain any character, and be of unlimited length.
- `type` (String) The type of the synonym. Possible values are `synonym`, `oneWaySynonym`, `altCorrection1`, `altCorrection2` and `placeholder`.

Optional:

- `corrections` (Set of String) List of corrections of the `word`. Required if type=`altCorrection1` or type=`altCorrection2`
- `input` (String) Defines the synonym. A word or expression, used as the basis for the array of synonyms. Required if type=`oneWaySynonym`.
- `placeholder` (String) Single word, used as the basis for the below array of replacements.  Required if type=`placeholder`
- `replacements` (Set of String) List of replacements of the placeholder. Required if type=`placeholder`
- `synonyms` (Set of String) List of synonyms (up to `20 for type `synonym` and 100 for type `oneWaySynonym`). Required if type=`synonym` or type=`oneWaySynonym`.
- `word` (String) Single word, used as the basis for the below array of corrections. Required if type=`altCorrection1` or type=`altCorrection2`

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
terraform import algolia_synonyms.default {{index_name}}
```
