docs/resources/virtual_index.md, before:

---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "algolia_virtual_index Resource - terraform-provider-algolia"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  A configuration for a virtual index.
---

# algolia_virtual_index (Resource)

A configuration for a virtual index.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "algolia_index" "example" {
  name = "example"

  attributes_config {
    searchable_attributes = [
      "title",
      "description",
    ]
    attributes_to_retrieve = ["*"]
  }

  replicas = ["virtual(example_replica)"]
}

resource "algolia_virtual_index" "example_virtual_replica" {
  name = "example_replica"

  attributes_config {
    unretrievable_attributes = [
      "author_email"
    ]
    attributes_to_retrieve = ["*"]
  }

  ranking_config {
    custom_ranking = ["desc(likes)"]
  }

  faceting_config {
    max_values_per_facet = 50
    sort_facet_values_by = "alpha"
  }

  languages_config {
    remove_stop_words_for = ["en"]
  }
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `name` (String) Name of the virtual index. Its name should NOT be surrounded with `virtual()`.

### Optional

- `advanced_config` (Block List, Max: 1) The configuration for advanced features in index setting. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--advanced_config))
- `attributes_config` (Block List, Max: 1) The configuration for attributes. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--attributes_config))
- `deletion_protection` (Boolean) Whether to allow Terraform to destroy the index.  Unless this field is set to false in Terraform state, a terraform destroy or terraform apply command that deletes the instance will fail.
- `enable_personalization` (Boolean) Whether to enable the Personalization feature.
- `enable_rules` (Boolean) Whether Rules should be globally enabled.
- `faceting_config` (Block List, Max: 1) The configuration for faceting. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--faceting_config))
- `highlight_and_snippet_config` (Block List, Max: 1) The configuration for highlight / snippet in index setting. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--highlight_and_snippet_config))
- `languages_config` (Block List, Max: 1) The configuration for languages in index setting. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--languages_config))
- `pagination_config` (Block List, Max: 1) The configuration for pagination in index setting. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--pagination_config))
- `query_strategy_config` (Block List, Max: 1) The configuration for query strategy in index setting. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--query_strategy_config))
- `ranking_config` (Block List, Max: 1) The configuration for ranking. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--ranking_config))
- `timeouts` (Block, Optional) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--timeouts))
- `typos_config` (Block List, Max: 1) The configuration for typos in index setting. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--typos_config))

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.
- `performance_config` (List of Object) The configuration for performance in index setting. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--performance_config))

<a id="nestedblock--advanced_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `advanced_config`

Optional:

- `attribute_criteria_computed_by_min_proximity` (Boolean) When attribute is ranked above proximity in your ranking formula, proximity is used to select which searchable attribute is matched in the **attribute ranking stage**.
- `distinct` (Number) Whether to enable de-duplication or grouping of results.
- When set to `0`, you disable de-duplication and grouping.
- When set to `1`, you enable **de-duplication**, in which only the most relevant result is returned for all records that have the same value in the distinct attribute. This is similar to the SQL `distinct` keyword.
if `distinct` is set to 1 (de-duplication):
- When set to `N (where N > 1)`, you enable grouping, in which most N hits will be returned with the same value for the distinct attribute.
then the N most relevant episodes for every show are kept, with similar consequences.
- `max_facet_hits` (Number) Maximum number of facet hits to return during a search for facet values.
- `min_proximity` (Number) Precision of the `proximity` ranking criterion.
- `replace_synonyms_in_highlight` (Boolean) Whether to highlight and snippet the original word that matches the synonym or the synonym itself.
- `response_fields` (Set of String) The fields the response will contain. Applies to search and browse queries.
This parameter is mainly intended to **limit the response size.** For example, in complex queries, echoing of request parameters in the response’s params field can be undesirable.

Read-Only:

- `attribute_for_distinct` (String) Name of the de-duplication attribute to be used with the `distinct` feature.


<a id="nestedblock--attributes_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `attributes_config`

Optional:

- `attributes_to_retrieve` (Set of String) List of attributes to be retrieved at query time.
- `unretrievable_attributes` (Set of String) List of attributes that cannot be retrieved at query time.

Read-Only:

- `attributes_for_faceting` (Set of String) The complete list of attributes that will be used for faceting.
- `searchable_attributes` (List of String) The complete list of attributes used for searching.


<a id="nestedblock--faceting_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `faceting_config`

Optional:

- `max_values_per_facet` (Number) Maximum number of facet values to return for each facet during a regular search.
- `sort_facet_values_by` (String) Parameter to controls how the facet values are sorted within each faceted attribute.


<a id="nestedblock--highlight_and_snippet_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `highlight_and_snippet_config`

Optional:

- `attributes_to_highlight` (Set of String) List of attributes to highlight.
- `attributes_to_snippet` (Set of String) List of attributes to snippet, with an optional maximum number of words to snippet.
- `highlight_post_tag` (String) The HTML string to insert after the highlighted parts in all highlight and snippet results.
- `highlight_pre_tag` (String) The HTML string to insert before the highlighted parts in all highlight and snippet results.
- `restrict_highlight_and_snippet_arrays` (Boolean) Restrict highlighting and snippeting to items that matched the query.
- `snippet_ellipsis_text` (String) String used as an ellipsis indicator when a snippet is truncated.


<a id="nestedblock--languages_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `languages_config`

Optional:

- `attributes_to_transliterate` (Set of String) List of attributes to apply transliteration
- `decompound_query` (Boolean) Whether to split compound words into their composing atoms in the query.
- `ignore_plurals` (Boolean) Whether to treat singular, plurals, and other forms of declensions as matching terms.
- `ignore_plurals_for` (Set of String) Whether to treat singular, plurals, and other forms of declensions as matching terms in target languages.
List of supported languages are listed on http://nhttps//www.algolia.com/doc/api-reference/api-parameters/ignorePlurals/#usage-notes
- `query_languages` (Set of String) List of languages to be used by language-specific settings and functionalities such as ignorePlurals, removeStopWords, and CJK word-detection.
- `remove_stop_words` (Boolean) Whether to removes stop (common) words from the query before executing it.
- `remove_stop_words_for` (Set of String) List of languages to removes stop (common) words from the query before executing it.

Read-Only:

- `camel_case_attributes` (Set of String) List of attributes on which to do a decomposition of camel case words.
- `custom_normalization` (Map of String) Custom normalization which overrides the engine’s default normalization
- `decompounded_attributes` (List of Object) List of attributes to apply word segmentation, also known as decompounding. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--languages_config--decompounded_attributes))
- `index_languages` (Set of String) List of languages at the index level for language-specific processing such as tokenization and normalization.
- `keep_diacritics_on_characters` (String) List of characters that the engine shouldn’t automatically normalize.

<a id="nestedatt--languages_config--decompounded_attributes"></a>
### Nested Schema for `languages_config.decompounded_attributes`

Read-Only:

- `attributes` (Set of String)
- `language` (String)



<a id="nestedblock--pagination_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `pagination_config`

Optional:

- `hits_per_page` (Number) The number of hits per page.
- `pagination_limited_to` (Number) The maximum number of hits accessible via pagination


<a id="nestedblock--query_strategy_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `query_strategy_config`

Optional:

- `advanced_syntax` (Boolean) Whether to enable the advanced query syntax.
- `advanced_syntax_features` (Set of String) Advanced syntax features to be activated when ‘advancedSyntax’ is enabled
- `alternatives_as_exact` (Set of String) List of alternatives that should be considered an exact match by the exact ranking criterion.
- `exact_on_single_word_query` (String) Controls how the exact ranking criterion is computed when the query contains only one word.
- `query_type` (String) Query type to control if and how query words are interpreted as prefixes.
- `remove_words_if_no_results` (String) Strategy to remove words from the query when it doesn’t match any hits.

Read-Only:

- `disable_exact_on_attributes` (Set of String) List of attributes on which you want to disable the exact ranking criterion.
- `disable_prefix_on_attributes` (Set of String) List of attributes on which you want to disable prefix matching.
- `optional_words` (Set of String) A list of words that should be considered as optional when found in the query.


<a id="nestedblock--ranking_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `ranking_config`

Optional:

- `custom_ranking` (List of String) List of attributes for custom ranking criterion.
- `relevancy_strictness` (Number) Relevancy threshold below which less relevant results aren’t included in the results

Read-Only:

- `ranking` (List of String) List of ranking criteria.


<a id="nestedblock--timeouts"></a>
### Nested Schema for `timeouts`

Optional:

- `default` (String)


<a id="nestedblock--typos_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `typos_config`

Optional:

- `allow_typos_on_numeric_tokens` (Boolean) Whether to allow typos on numbers (“numeric tokens”) in the query str
- `min_word_size_for_1_typo` (Number) Minimum number of characters a word in the query string must contain to accept matches with 1 typo.
- `min_word_size_for_2_typos` (Number) Minimum number of characters a word in the query string must contain to accept matches with 2 typos.
- `separators_to_index` (String) Separators (punctuation characters) to index. By default, separators are not indexed.
- `typo_tolerance` (String) Whether typo tolerance is enabled and how it is applied

Read-Only:

- `disable_typo_tolerance_on_attributes` (List of String) List of attributes on which you want to disable typo tolerance.
- `disable_typo_tolerance_on_words` (List of String) List of words on which typo tolerance will be disabled.


<a id="nestedatt--performance_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `performance_config`

Read-Only:

- `allow_compression_of_integer_array` (Boolean)
- `numeric_attributes_for_filtering` (Set of String)

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
terraform import algolia_virtual_index.default {{index_name}}
```

Commit message:

Add 'primary_index_name' field to algolia_virtual_index resource

docs/resources/virtual_index.md, after:

---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "algolia_virtual_index Resource - terraform-provider-algolia"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  A configuration for a virtual index.
---

# algolia_virtual_index (Resource)

A configuration for a virtual index.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "algolia_index" "example" {
  name = "example"

  attributes_config {
    searchable_attributes = [
      "title",
      "description",
    ]
    attributes_to_retrieve = ["*"]
  }

  replicas = ["virtual(example_replica)"]
}

resource "algolia_virtual_index" "example_virtual_replica" {
  name               = "example_replica"
  primary_index_name = "example"

  attributes_config {
    unretrievable_attributes = [
      "author_email"
    ]
    attributes_to_retrieve = ["*"]
  }

  ranking_config {
    custom_ranking = ["desc(likes)"]
  }

  faceting_config {
    max_values_per_facet = 50
    sort_facet_values_by = "alpha"
  }

  languages_config {
    remove_stop_words_for = ["en"]
  }
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `name` (String) Name of the virtual index. Its name should NOT be surrounded with `virtual()`.
- `primary_index_name` (String) The name of the existing primary index name.

### Optional

- `advanced_config` (Block List, Max: 1) The configuration for advanced features in index setting. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--advanced_config))
- `attributes_config` (Block List, Max: 1) The configuration for attributes. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--attributes_config))
- `deletion_protection` (Boolean) Whether to allow Terraform to destroy the index.  Unless this field is set to false in Terraform state, a terraform destroy or terraform apply command that deletes the instance will fail.
- `enable_personalization` (Boolean) Whether to enable the Personalization feature.
- `enable_rules` (Boolean) Whether Rules should be globally enabled.
- `faceting_config` (Block List, Max: 1) The configuration for faceting. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--faceting_config))
- `highlight_and_snippet_config` (Block List, Max: 1) The configuration for highlight / snippet in index setting. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--highlight_and_snippet_config))
- `languages_config` (Block List, Max: 1) The configuration for languages in index setting. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--languages_config))
- `pagination_config` (Block List, Max: 1) The configuration for pagination in index setting. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--pagination_config))
- `query_strategy_config` (Block List, Max: 1) The configuration for query strategy in index setting. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--query_strategy_config))
- `ranking_config` (Block List, Max: 1) The configuration for ranking. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--ranking_config))
- `timeouts` (Block, Optional) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--timeouts))
- `typos_config` (Block List, Max: 1) The configuration for typos in index setting. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--typos_config))

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.
- `performance_config` (List of Object) The configuration for performance in index setting. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--performance_config))

<a id="nestedblock--advanced_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `advanced_config`

Optional:

- `attribute_criteria_computed_by_min_proximity` (Boolean) When attribute is ranked above proximity in your ranking formula, proximity is used to select which searchable attribute is matched in the **attribute ranking stage**.
- `distinct` (Number) Whether to enable de-duplication or grouping of results.
- When set to `0`, you disable de-duplication and grouping.
- When set to `1`, you enable **de-duplication**, in which only the most relevant result is returned for all records that have the same value in the distinct attribute. This is similar to the SQL `distinct` keyword.
if `distinct` is set to 1 (de-duplication):
- When set to `N (where N > 1)`, you enable grouping, in which most N hits will be returned with the same value for the distinct attribute.
then the N most relevant episodes for every show are kept, with similar consequences.
- `max_facet_hits` (Number) Maximum number of facet hits to return during a search for facet values.
- `min_proximity` (Number) Precision of the `proximity` ranking criterion.
- `replace_synonyms_in_highlight` (Boolean) Whether to highlight and snippet the original word that matches the synonym or the synonym itself.
- `response_fields` (Set of String) The fields the response will contain. Applies to search and browse queries.
This parameter is mainly intended to **limit the response size.** For example, in complex queries, echoing of request parameters in the response’s params field can be undesirable.

Read-Only:

- `attribute_for_distinct` (String) Name of the de-duplication attribute to be used with the `distinct` feature.


<a id="nestedblock--attributes_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `attributes_config`

Optional:

- `attributes_to_retrieve` (Set of String) List of attributes to be retrieved at query time.
- `unretrievable_attributes` (Set of String) List of attributes that cannot be retrieved at query time.

Read-Only:

- `attributes_for_faceting` (Set of String) The complete list of attributes that will be used for faceting.
- `searchable_attributes` (List of String) The complete list of attributes used for searching.


<a id="nestedblock--faceting_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `faceting_config`

Optional:

- `max_values_per_facet` (Number) Maximum number of facet values to return for each facet during a regular search.
- `sort_facet_values_by` (String) Parameter to controls how the facet values are sorted within each faceted attribute.


<a id="nestedblock--highlight_and_snippet_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `highlight_and_snippet_config`

Optional:

- `attributes_to_highlight` (Set of String) List of attributes to highlight.
- `attributes_to_snippet` (Set of String) List of attributes to snippet, with an optional maximum number of words to snippet.
- `highlight_post_tag` (String) The HTML string to insert after the highlighted parts in all highlight and snippet results.
- `highlight_pre_tag` (String) The HTML string to insert before the highlighted parts in all highlight and snippet results.
- `restrict_highlight_and_snippet_arrays` (Boolean) Restrict highlighting and snippeting to items that matched the query.
- `snippet_ellipsis_text` (String) String used as an ellipsis indicator when a snippet is truncated.


<a id="nestedblock--languages_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `languages_config`

Optional:

- `attributes_to_transliterate` (Set of String) List of attributes to apply transliteration
- `decompound_query` (Boolean) Whether to split compound words into their composing atoms in the query.
- `ignore_plurals` (Boolean) Whether to treat singular, plurals, and other forms of declensions as matching terms.
- `ignore_plurals_for` (Set of String) Whether to treat singular, plurals, and other forms of declensions as matching terms in target languages.
List of supported languages are listed on http://nhttps//www.algolia.com/doc/api-reference/api-parameters/ignorePlurals/#usage-notes
- `query_languages` (Set of String) List of languages to be used by language-specific settings and functionalities such as ignorePlurals, removeStopWords, and CJK word-detection.
- `remove_stop_words` (Boolean) Whether to removes stop (common) words from the query before executing it.
- `remove_stop_words_for` (Set of String) List of languages to removes stop (common) words from the query before executing it.

Read-Only:

- `camel_case_attributes` (Set of String) List of attributes on which to do a decomposition of camel case words.
- `custom_normalization` (Map of String) Custom normalization which overrides the engine’s default normalization
- `decompounded_attributes` (List of Object) List of attributes to apply word segmentation, also known as decompounding. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--languages_config--decompounded_attributes))
- `index_languages` (Set of String) List of languages at the index level for language-specific processing such as tokenization and normalization.
- `keep_diacritics_on_characters` (String) List of characters that the engine shouldn’t automatically normalize.

<a id="nestedatt--languages_config--decompounded_attributes"></a>
### Nested Schema for `languages_config.decompounded_attributes`

Read-Only:

- `attributes` (Set of String)
- `language` (String)



<a id="nestedblock--pagination_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `pagination_config`

Optional:

- `hits_per_page` (Number) The number of hits per page.
- `pagination_limited_to` (Number) The maximum number of hits accessible via pagination


<a id="nestedblock--query_strategy_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `query_strategy_config`

Optional:

- `advanced_syntax` (Boolean) Whether to enable the advanced query syntax.
- `advanced_syntax_features` (Set of String) Advanced syntax features to be activated when ‘advancedSyntax’ is enabled
- `alternatives_as_exact` (Set of String) List of alternatives that should be considered an exact match by the exact ranking criterion.
- `exact_on_single_word_query` (String) Controls how the exact ranking criterion is computed when the query contains only one word.
- `query_type` (String) Query type to control if and how query words are interpreted as prefixes.
- `remove_words_if_no_results` (String) Strategy to remove words from the query when it doesn’t match any hits.

Read-Only:

- `disable_exact_on_attributes` (Set of String) List of attributes on which you want to disable the exact ranking criterion.
- `disable_prefix_on_attributes` (Set of String) List of attributes on which you want to disable prefix matching.
- `optional_words` (Set of String) A list of words that should be considered as optional when found in the query.


<a id="nestedblock--ranking_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `ranking_config`

Optional:

- `custom_ranking` (List of String) List of attributes for custom ranking criterion.
- `relevancy_strictness` (Number) Relevancy threshold below which less relevant results aren’t included in the results

Read-Only:

- `ranking` (List of String) List of ranking criteria.


<a id="nestedblock--timeouts"></a>
### Nested Schema for `timeouts`

Optional:

- `default` (String)


<a id="nestedblock--typos_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `typos_config`

Optional:

- `allow_typos_on_numeric_tokens` (Boolean) Whether to allow typos on numbers (“numeric tokens”) in the query str
- `min_word_size_for_1_typo` (Number) Minimum number of characters a word in the query string must contain to accept matches with 1 typo.
- `min_word_size_for_2_typos` (Number) Minimum number of characters a word in the query string must contain to accept matches with 2 typos.
- `separators_to_index` (String) Separators (punctuation characters) to index. By default, separators are not indexed.
- `typo_tolerance` (String) Whether typo tolerance is enabled and how it is applied

Read-Only:

- `disable_typo_tolerance_on_attributes` (List of String) List of attributes on which you want to disable typo tolerance.
- `disable_typo_tolerance_on_words` (List of String) List of words on which typo tolerance will be disabled.


<a id="nestedatt--performance_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `performance_config`

Read-Only:

- `allow_compression_of_integer_array` (Boolean)
- `numeric_attributes_for_filtering` (Set of String)

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
terraform import algolia_virtual_index.default {{index_name}}
```
